web/src/content/docs/docs/quick-start.mdx, before:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Install Renku and generate your first AI video in minutes
---

This guide will help you install Renku, set up your workspace, configure API keys, and generate your first AI-powered video.

## Prerequisites

Before installing Renku, ensure you have:

- **Node.js 18+** - Download from [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org)
- **pnpm** - Install with `npm install -g pnpm`
- **FFmpeg** (optional) - For native video export without Docker. Download from [ffmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html)

## Installation

Install the Renku CLI globally:

```bash
npm install -g @gorenku/cli
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
renku --version
```

## Create a Workspace

Initialize a new Renku workspace:

```bash
renku init --root=/path/to/your/workspace
```

For example:

```bash
renku init --root=~/my-creations
```

This creates:
- `~/.config/renku/cli-config.json` - Configuration file
- `{workspace}/.gitignore` - Ignores `**/builds/` and `**/artifacts/`
- `{workspace}/catalog/` containing:
  - `models/` - Supported model configurations
  - `producers/` - Supported producer definitions
  - `blueprints/` - Example blueprints to get started

**Note:** Builds and artifacts are created in your **current working directory** when running `renku generate`, not in the workspace root. This supports project-based workflows.

## Configure API Keys

Renku uses multiple AI providers. You'll need API keys for the providers used by your chosen blueprint.

### Providers

Depending on the blueprint and the models you select, you may need keys for the following providers:

| Provider | Purpose | Get API Key |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| **OpenAI** | Script generation, prompt creation | [platform.openai.com](https://platform.openai.com) |
| **Replicate** | Video, audio, image generation | [replicate.com](https://replicate.com) |
| **fal.ai** | Video, audio, image generation | [fal.ai](https://fal.ai) |
| **Wavespeed AI** | Video, audio, image generation | [wavespeed.ai](https://wavespeed.ai) |

### Set Environment Variables

When you run `renku init`, a placeholder script named `env.sh` is created in `~/.config/renku/`. Edit this file to add your API keys:

```bash
# Renku API Keys Configuration
# Replace the placeholder values with your actual API keys
# Then source this file: source ~/.config/renku/env.sh

export REPLICATE_API_TOKEN="your-replicate-api-token-here"
export FAL_KEY="your-fal-api-key-here"
export WAVESPEED_API_KEY="your-wavespeed-api-key-here"
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-api-key-here"
```

## Run Your First Blueprint

### 1. Choose a Blueprint
First go to your workspace that you created earlier:

```bash
cd /path/to/your/workspace
```

List available blueprints:

```bash
renku blueprints:list
```

For this tutorial, we'll use the `kenn-burns` blueprint which generates a video with a Ken Burns effect, audio and background music.

### 2. Create an Inputs File

Each blueprint has an input template. Copy it to create your inputs file:

```bash
cp ./catalog/blueprints/kenn-burns/input-template.yaml ./my-inputs.yaml
```

Edit `my-inputs.yaml` with your desired parameters. Here's an example configuration which will generate a 20-second video about the Eiffel Tower in a Ghibli style, each segment will have 1 image and there will be 2 segments in total. We are using the Replicate and OpenAI as providers, so you would need to have their API keys set in your environment.

```yaml
inputs:
  InquiryPrompt: "Tell me about the history of the Eiffel Tower."
  Duration: 20
  NumOfSegments: 2
  NumOfImagesPerNarrative: 1
  Style: "Ghibli"
  Size: "1K"
  AspectRatio: "16:9"
  Audience: "Adult"
  VoiceId: "Wise_Woman"
  Emotion: neutral

models:
  - model: gpt-5-mini
    provider: openai
    producerId: ScriptProducer
    config:
      text_format: json_schema
  - model: gpt-5-mini
    provider: openai
    producerId: ImagePromptProducer
    config:
      text_format: json_schema
  - model: google/nano-banana
    provider: replicate
    producerId: ImageProducer
  - model: minimax/speech-2.6-hd
    provider: replicate
    producerId: AudioProducer
  - model: timeline/ordered
    provider: renku
    producerId: TimelineComposer
    config:
      tracks: ["Image", "Audio"]
      masterTracks: ["Audio"]
      numTracks: 2
      audioClip:
        artifact: AudioSegments
        volume: 0.9
      imageClip:
        artifact: ImageSegments[Image]
```

### 3. Validate with Dry Run

Before using real API credits, validate your setup with a dry run:

```bash
renku generate \
  --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml \
  --blueprint=./catalog/blueprints/kenn-burns/image-audio.yaml \
  --dry-run
```

The dry run:
- Validates your blueprint and inputs
- Shows the execution plan
- Creates mock artifacts (no API calls)

### 4. Run Full Generation

When you're ready, run the full generation:

```bash
renku generate \
  --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml \
  --blueprint=./catalog/blueprints/kenn-burns/image-audio.yaml
```

Watch as Renku:
1. Generates a narration script using OpenAI
2. Creates audio for each segment using your chosen voice
3. Saves all artifacts to the build director.

### 5. View the Results

Open the generated content in the viewer:

```bash
renku viewer:view --last
```

This starts a local viewer server and opens your browser to preview the generated content.

## Understanding the Output

After generation, your **current working directory** contains:

```
{project}/                       # Current working directory
├── builds/                      # GITIGNORED - build data
│   └── movie-{id}/
│       ├── blobs/               # Generated files (audio, images, etc.)
│       ├── manifests/           # Artifact metadata
│       ├── events/              # Execution logs
│       └── runs/                # Execution plans
└── artifacts/                   # GITIGNORED - symlinks to build outputs
    └── movie-{id}/
        ├── Script.txt           # Generated narration script
        ├── Segment_0.mp3        # Audio for segment 0
        ├── Segment_1.mp3        # Audio for segment 1
        └── Segment_2.mp3        # Audio for segment 2
```

The `artifacts/` directory contains human-readable symlinks to your generated content. Use `renku list` to see all builds in the current project.

## Next Steps

You've successfully generated your first AI video content with Renku!

### Explore More Blueprints

Try other example blueprints:

```bash
renku blueprints:list
renku blueprints:describe {workspace}/catalog/blueprints/video-only/video-only.yaml
```

### Learn the Workflow

Read the [Usage Guide](/docs/usage-guide) to learn:
- How to edit and iterate on generated content
- Using layer-by-layer generation for cost control
- Browsing available models and producers

### Deep Dive

For advanced users:
- [CLI Reference](/docs/cli-reference) - Complete command documentation
- [Blueprint Authoring](/docs/blueprint-authoring) - Create custom workflows

## Troubleshooting

### Missing API Credentials

```
Error: OPENAI_API_KEY not found
```

**Solution:** Export your API key or add it to a `.env` file in your workspace.

### Blueprint Not Found

```
Error: Blueprint file not found
```

**Solution:** Use the full path to the blueprint file. After `renku init`, blueprints are in `{workspace}/catalog/blueprints/`.

### Provider Rate Limits

The providers have rate limits that may depend on your tier or how much you loaded your account with. Setting --concurrency to a higher value than 1 will likely trigger these limits. Concurrency will allow you to parallelize requests, but if you hit rate limits, try lowering the concurrency or upgrading your plan with the provider.

### Dry Run Works, Real Run Fails

Check that:
1. All required API keys are set
2. Check your provider logs to diagnose issues. Sometimes you may be hitting rate limits or safety filters.
3. Your API accounts have sufficient credits
4. The model names in the inputs file are valid and currently available.

Run `renku producers:list --blueprint=<path>` to see available models and check for missing tokens.

Commit message:

fix: remove redundant list and describe commands for blueprints, use regular shell commands

web/src/content/docs/docs/quick-start.mdx, after:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Install Renku and generate your first AI video in minutes
---

This guide will help you install Renku, set up your workspace, configure API keys, and generate your first AI-powered video.

## Prerequisites

Before installing Renku, ensure you have:

- **Node.js 18+** - Download from [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org)
- **pnpm** - Install with `npm install -g pnpm`
- **FFmpeg** (optional) - For native video export without Docker. Download from [ffmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html)

## Installation

Install the Renku CLI globally:

```bash
npm install -g @gorenku/cli
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
renku --version
```

## Create a Workspace

Initialize a new Renku workspace:

```bash
renku init --root=/path/to/your/workspace
```

For example:

```bash
renku init --root=~/my-creations
```

This creates:
- `~/.config/renku/cli-config.json` - Configuration file
- `{workspace}/.gitignore` - Ignores `**/builds/` and `**/artifacts/`
- `{workspace}/catalog/` containing:
  - `models/` - Supported model configurations
  - `producers/` - Supported producer definitions
  - `blueprints/` - Example blueprints to get started

**Note:** Builds and artifacts are created in your **current working directory** when running `renku generate`, not in the workspace root. This supports project-based workflows.

## Configure API Keys

Renku uses multiple AI providers. You'll need API keys for the providers used by your chosen blueprint.

### Providers

Depending on the blueprint and the models you select, you may need keys for the following providers:

| Provider | Purpose | Get API Key |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| **OpenAI** | Script generation, prompt creation | [platform.openai.com](https://platform.openai.com) |
| **Replicate** | Video, audio, image generation | [replicate.com](https://replicate.com) |
| **fal.ai** | Video, audio, image generation | [fal.ai](https://fal.ai) |
| **Wavespeed AI** | Video, audio, image generation | [wavespeed.ai](https://wavespeed.ai) |

### Set Environment Variables

When you run `renku init`, a placeholder script named `env.sh` is created in `~/.config/renku/`. Edit this file to add your API keys:

```bash
# Renku API Keys Configuration
# Replace the placeholder values with your actual API keys
# Then source this file: source ~/.config/renku/env.sh

export REPLICATE_API_TOKEN="your-replicate-api-token-here"
export FAL_KEY="your-fal-api-key-here"
export WAVESPEED_API_KEY="your-wavespeed-api-key-here"
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-api-key-here"
```

## Run Your First Blueprint

### 1. Choose a Blueprint
First go to your workspace that you created earlier:

```bash
cd /path/to/your/workspace
```

Browse available blueprints in the catalog directory:

```bash
ls ./catalog/blueprints/
```

For this tutorial, we'll use the `kenn-burns` blueprint which generates a video with a Ken Burns effect, audio and background music.

### 2. Create an Inputs File

Each blueprint has an input template. Copy it to create your inputs file:

```bash
cp ./catalog/blueprints/kenn-burns/input-template.yaml ./my-inputs.yaml
```

Edit `my-inputs.yaml` with your desired parameters. Here's an example configuration which will generate a 20-second video about the Eiffel Tower in a Ghibli style, each segment will have 1 image and there will be 2 segments in total. We are using the Replicate and OpenAI as providers, so you would need to have their API keys set in your environment.

```yaml
inputs:
  InquiryPrompt: "Tell me about the history of the Eiffel Tower."
  Duration: 20
  NumOfSegments: 2
  NumOfImagesPerNarrative: 1
  Style: "Ghibli"
  Size: "1K"
  AspectRatio: "16:9"
  Audience: "Adult"
  VoiceId: "Wise_Woman"
  Emotion: neutral

models:
  - model: gpt-5-mini
    provider: openai
    producerId: ScriptProducer
    config:
      text_format: json_schema
  - model: gpt-5-mini
    provider: openai
    producerId: ImagePromptProducer
    config:
      text_format: json_schema
  - model: google/nano-banana
    provider: replicate
    producerId: ImageProducer
  - model: minimax/speech-2.6-hd
    provider: replicate
    producerId: AudioProducer
  - model: timeline/ordered
    provider: renku
    producerId: TimelineComposer
    config:
      tracks: ["Image", "Audio"]
      masterTracks: ["Audio"]
      numTracks: 2
      audioClip:
        artifact: AudioSegments
        volume: 0.9
      imageClip:
        artifact: ImageSegments[Image]
```

### 3. Validate with Dry Run

Before using real API credits, validate your setup with a dry run:

```bash
renku generate \
  --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml \
  --blueprint=./catalog/blueprints/kenn-burns/image-audio.yaml \
  --dry-run
```

The dry run:
- Validates your blueprint and inputs
- Shows the execution plan
- Creates mock artifacts (no API calls)

### 4. Run Full Generation

When you're ready, run the full generation:

```bash
renku generate \
  --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml \
  --blueprint=./catalog/blueprints/kenn-burns/image-audio.yaml
```

Watch as Renku:
1. Generates a narration script using OpenAI
2. Creates audio for each segment using your chosen voice
3. Saves all artifacts to the build director.

### 5. View the Results

Open the generated content in the viewer:

```bash
renku viewer:view --last
```

This starts a local viewer server and opens your browser to preview the generated content.

## Understanding the Output

After generation, your **current working directory** contains:

```
{project}/                       # Current working directory
├── builds/                      # GITIGNORED - build data
│   └── movie-{id}/
│       ├── blobs/               # Generated files (audio, images, etc.)
│       ├── manifests/           # Artifact metadata
│       ├── events/              # Execution logs
│       └── runs/                # Execution plans
└── artifacts/                   # GITIGNORED - symlinks to build outputs
    └── movie-{id}/
        ├── Script.txt           # Generated narration script
        ├── Segment_0.mp3        # Audio for segment 0
        ├── Segment_1.mp3        # Audio for segment 1
        └── Segment_2.mp3        # Audio for segment 2
```

The `artifacts/` directory contains human-readable symlinks to your generated content. Use `renku list` to see all builds in the current project.

## Next Steps

You've successfully generated your first AI video content with Renku!

### Explore More Blueprints

Try other example blueprints by browsing the catalog:

```bash
ls ./catalog/blueprints/
```

Each blueprint directory contains a `input-template.yaml` that documents the required inputs.

### Learn the Workflow

Read the [Usage Guide](/docs/usage-guide) to learn:
- How to edit and iterate on generated content
- Using layer-by-layer generation for cost control
- Browsing available models and producers

### Deep Dive

For advanced users:
- [CLI Reference](/docs/cli-reference) - Complete command documentation
- [Blueprint Authoring](/docs/blueprint-authoring) - Create custom workflows

## Troubleshooting

### Missing API Credentials

```
Error: OPENAI_API_KEY not found
```

**Solution:** Export your API key or add it to a `.env` file in your workspace.

### Blueprint Not Found

```
Error: Blueprint file not found
```

**Solution:** Use the full path to the blueprint file. After `renku init`, blueprints are in `{workspace}/catalog/blueprints/`.

### Provider Rate Limits

The providers have rate limits that may depend on your tier or how much you loaded your account with. Setting --concurrency to a higher value than 1 will likely trigger these limits. Concurrency will allow you to parallelize requests, but if you hit rate limits, try lowering the concurrency or upgrading your plan with the provider.

### Dry Run Works, Real Run Fails

Check that:
1. All required API keys are set
2. Check your provider logs to diagnose issues. Sometimes you may be hitting rate limits or safety filters.
3. Your API accounts have sufficient credits
4. The model names in the inputs file are valid and currently available.

Run `renku producers:list --blueprint=<path>` to see available models and check for missing tokens.
