web/src/content/docs/docs/usage-guide.mdx, before:

---
title: Usage Guide
description: Master the common workflows for generating and editing AI video content
---

This guide covers the day-to-day workflows for using Renku: specifying inputs, discovering blueprints and models, testing with dry runs, generating content, and iterating on your creations.

## Specifying Inputs

Every blueprint requires an inputs file that provides the configuration for your video generation.

### Input File Format

Inputs are specified in YAML with two main sections:

```yaml
inputs:
  InquiryPrompt: "Your topic or prompt here"
  Duration: 60
  NumOfSegments: 3
  # ... other blueprint-specific inputs

models:
  # Optional: override default model selections
  - model: minimax/speech-2.6-hd
    provider: replicate
    producerId: AudioProducer
```

### Input Types

| Type | YAML Syntax | Example |
|------|-------------|---------|
| `string` | Quoted or unquoted text | `"Hello world"` or `Hello world` |
| `int` | Number without quotes | `42` |
| `array` | YAML list | `["item1", "item2"]` |

### Using Input Templates

Every blueprint includes an `input-template.yaml` with all available inputs and their defaults:

```bash
# Copy the template
cp {blueprint-dir}/input-template.yaml ./my-inputs.yaml

# Edit with your values
nano ./my-inputs.yaml
```

### Model Selection

Select which AI model to use for each producer:

```yaml
models:
  # Use a specific video model
  - model: google/veo-3.1-fast
    provider: replicate
    producerId: VideoProducer

  # Use a specific voice model with custom config
  - model: minimax/speech-2.6-hd
    provider: replicate
    producerId: AudioProducer

  # LLM producer with structured output
  - model: gpt-5-mini
    provider: openai
    producerId: ScriptProducer
    config:
      text_format: json_schema
```

The `config` field allows you to pass provider-specific configuration options.

**Note:** Input-to-provider field mappings (transforms) are defined in the producer YAML files, not in the input template. This keeps the input file simple - you only need to specify what model to use, not how inputs map to provider fields.

## Discovering Content

### Browsing Blueprints

Browse available blueprints in your workspace catalog:

```bash
ls ./catalog/blueprints/
```

Each blueprint directory contains:
- The blueprint YAML file with the workflow definition
- An `input-template.yaml` documenting required inputs and their types

### Browsing Models

See available models for a blueprint's producers:

```bash
renku producers:list --blueprint=video-only.yaml
```

Output:
```
Producer model configurations:

VideoProducer (4 video models)
  Provider    Model                          Price
  replicate   bytedance/seedance-1-pro-fast  480p: $0.015/s
  replicate   google/veo-3.1-fast            $0.10/s
  fal-ai      veo3-1                         -

AudioProducer (2 audio models)
  Provider    Model                 Price
  replicate   minimax/speech-2.6-hd $0.0001/token
  replicate   elevenlabs/v3         $0.0001/token

⚠️  Missing API tokens:
  - fal-ai: FAL_KEY not set
```

## Testing with Dry Run

Before spending API credits, validate your configuration with a dry run:

```bash
renku generate \
  --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml \
  --blueprint=./my-blueprint.yaml \
  --dry-run
```

### What Dry Run Does

- Validates blueprint YAML structure
- Checks all required inputs are provided
- Verifies producer paths exist
- Creates the execution plan
- Generates placeholder artifacts

### What Dry Run Doesn't Do

- Call any AI provider APIs
- Consume API credits
- Generate real content

### Inspecting the Plan

After a dry run, examine the execution plan:

```bash
cat {workspace}/builds/movie-{id}/runs/rev-0001-plan.json
```

The plan shows:
- Execution layers (parallel groups)
- Jobs in each layer
- Input/output connections
- Canonical IDs for all nodes

## Running Generation

### Full Generation

Run the complete workflow:

```bash
renku generate \
  --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml \
  --blueprint=./my-blueprint.yaml
```

Renku will:
1. Create a new movie directory
2. Execute producers layer by layer
3. Store artifacts in the blob store
4. Create symlinks in `artifacts/`
5. Log all events for future reference

### Continue an Existing Movie

Resume or regenerate an existing movie:

```bash
# By movie ID
renku generate --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4 --inputs=./inputs.yaml

# The most recent movie
renku generate --last --inputs=./inputs.yaml
```

**Note:** The `--inputs` flag is always required, even when continuing an existing movie. This ensures model selections are available for any jobs that need to run.

### Non-Interactive Mode

Skip confirmation prompts for automation:

```bash
renku generate \
  --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml \
  --blueprint=./my-blueprint.yaml \
  --non-interactive
```

### Finding Your Outputs

Generated content is in two locations within your **current working directory**:

**Build directory** (`builds/movie-{id}/`):
- `blobs/` - Raw generated files
- `manifests/` - Artifact metadata
- `events/` - Execution logs

**Artifacts view** (`artifacts/movie-{id}/`):
- Human-readable filenames
- Symlinks to blob storage
- Easy to browse and share

Use `renku list` to see all builds in the current project.

## Editing Workflow

Renku's incremental build system makes iteration efficient.

### Changing Inputs

1. Edit your inputs file
2. Re-run generation on the same movie:

```bash
renku generate --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4 --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml
```

Renku detects which inputs changed and only regenerates affected artifacts.

### Editing Generated Prompts

You can manually edit generated text artifacts:

1. Find the artifact in `artifacts/movie-{id}/`
2. Edit the file directly (it's a symlink to the blob)
3. Re-run generation:

```bash
renku generate --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4 --inputs=./inputs.yaml
```

Renku will:
- Detect your manual edits
- Keep your changes
- Only regenerate downstream artifacts that depend on the edited file

### Replacing Artifacts

If an AI-generated image or video isn't satisfactory:

1. Replace the file in `artifacts/movie-{id}/`
2. Re-run generation

Your replacement will be used for downstream processing (like timeline composition).

## Layer-by-Layer Generation

For cost control and quality review, generate content in stages.

### What Are Layers?

Renku groups independent jobs into execution layers:

- **Layer 0**: Script generation (depends only on inputs)
- **Layer 1**: Prompt generation, audio synthesis (depends on script)
- **Layer 2**: Video/image generation (depends on prompts)
- **Layer 3**: Timeline composition (depends on all media)

### Generate Up to a Specific Layer

```bash
renku generate \
  --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml \
  --blueprint=./my-blueprint.yaml \
  --up-to-layer=1
```

This stops after layer 1, so you can:
- Review the generated script
- Check audio quality
- Make edits before generating expensive video content

### Continue to Next Layers

After reviewing, continue generation:

```bash
renku generate --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4 --inputs=./inputs.yaml --up-to-layer=2
```

### Re-Run From a Specific Layer

If you need to regenerate content from a specific layer onwards (e.g., after changing model settings or fixing an issue), use `--re-run-from`:

```bash
# Re-run from layer 2 (skips layers 0-1, uses existing artifacts)
renku generate --last --inputs=./inputs.yaml --from=2
```

This is useful when:
- You want to try a different video model without regenerating scripts
- A later layer failed and you want to retry from that point
- You've manually edited artifacts at a specific layer

The `--from` flag:
- Takes a 0-indexed layer number
- Skips all layers before the specified layer (uses existing artifacts)
- Forces all jobs at the specified layer and above to re-run
- Requires `--inputs` to be specified (for model selections)

You can combine `--from` with `--up-to-layer` to re-run a specific range:

```bash
# Re-run only layers 2 and 3
renku generate --last --inputs=./inputs.yaml --from=2 --up-to-layer=3
```

### Surgical Artifact Regeneration

When you need to regenerate just one specific artifact without affecting siblings, use `--artifact-id`:

```bash
# Regenerate only segment 2's audio (not segments 0, 1, 3, 4)
renku generate --last --artifact-id="AudioProducer.GeneratedAudio[2]" --inputs=./inputs.yaml
```

This is different from `--from` which regenerates **all** jobs at a layer. With `--artifact-id`:
- Only the specified artifact and its downstream dependencies are regenerated
- Sibling artifacts in the same layer are untouched
- You can combine with `--up-to-layer` to limit how far downstream propagation goes

**When to use each:**

| Scenario | Use |
|----------|-----|
| One segment sounds wrong, others are fine | `--artifact-id` |
| Changed model settings, need to redo a layer | `--from` |
| Generated up to layer 1, now want to fix one image | `--artifact-id` + `--up-to-layer` |
| Need to retry all video generation | `--from=N` where N is the video layer |

**Finding artifact IDs:**

```bash
# List all artifact IDs in a movie
cat builds/movie-{id}/manifests/rev-XXXX.json | jq '.artefacts | keys'
```

**Note:** Quote the artifact ID when using zsh to prevent bracket expansion:
```bash
renku generate --last --artifact-id="AudioProducer.GeneratedAudio[2]" --inputs=./inputs.yaml
```

### Cost-Saving Strategies

1. **Review scripts first** - Script generation is cheap; video generation is expensive
2. **Use layer limits** - Generate expensive content only when you're happy with cheaper precursors
3. **Iterate on prompts** - Edit video prompts before generating videos
4. **Leverage caching** - Re-running generation only rebuilds changed artifacts
5. **Use `--from` for retries** - If a later layer fails, use `--from=N` to retry from that layer without regenerating earlier content
6. **Use `--artifact-id` for surgical fixes** - If only one segment needs work, regenerate just that artifact instead of the whole layer

## Viewing Content

### Open in Viewer

Start the viewer and open a movie:

```bash
# Specific movie
renku viewer:view --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4

# Most recent movie
renku viewer:view --last
```

### Background Viewer Server

Start the viewer server in the background:

```bash
renku viewer:start
```

Stop it when done:

```bash
renku viewer:stop
```

## Exporting Video

Export the final video as MP4:

```bash
renku export --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4
```

With custom settings:

```bash
renku export --last \
  --width=1920 \
  --height=1080 \
  --fps=30
```

### Choosing an Exporter

Renku supports two exporter backends:

| Exporter | Description | Requirements |
|----------|-------------|--------------|
| `remotion` | Docker-based Remotion renderer (default) | Docker Desktop |
| `ffmpeg` | Native FFmpeg renderer | FFmpeg installed |

Use the `--exporter` flag to choose:

```bash
# Use FFmpeg (faster, no Docker required)
renku export --last --exporter=ffmpeg

# Use Remotion (default, requires Docker)
renku export --last --exporter=remotion
```

**FFmpeg exporter advantages:**
- No Docker installation required
- Faster rendering for simple timelines
- Produces MP3 for audio-only timelines
- Supports karaoke-style subtitles

**Remotion exporter advantages:**
- More advanced video effects
- Better suited for complex compositions

### Advanced Export Configuration

For fine-grained control over export settings, use a YAML config file:

```bash
renku export --last --inputs=./export-config.yaml
```

Example config file with all available options:

```yaml
# Video settings
width: 1920
height: 1080
fps: 30
exporter: ffmpeg

# FFmpeg encoding settings
preset: medium      # ultrafast, fast, medium, slow
crf: 23             # Quality: 0-51 (lower = better)
audioBitrate: 192k  # Audio quality

# Karaoke-style subtitles (requires TranscriptionProducer)
subtitles:
  font: Arial
  fontSize: 48
  fontBaseColor: "#FFFFFF"
  fontHighlightColor: "#FFD700"
  backgroundColor: "#000000"
  backgroundOpacity: 0.5
  bottomMarginPercent: 10
  maxWordsPerLine: 4
  highlightEffect: true
```

### Subtitles

If your blueprint includes a `TranscriptionProducer`, the FFmpeg exporter can add karaoke-style subtitles that highlight words as they're spoken:

1. Ensure your blueprint has a `TranscriptionProducer` that generates word-level timestamps
2. Create an export config with subtitle settings
3. Run export with the config file

The exported video is saved to:
- `builds/movie-{id}/FinalVideo.mp4`
- `artifacts/movie-{id}/FinalVideo.mp4` (symlink)

## Cleaning Up

List builds in the current project:

```bash
renku list
```

This shows which builds have artifacts (completed runs) vs. dry-run only builds.

Remove dry-run builds (safe default):

```bash
renku clean
```

Remove a specific movie:

```bash
renku clean --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4
```

Remove all builds including completed ones:

```bash
renku clean --all
```

## Tips and Best Practices

### Start Small

For new blueprints, start with:
- Fewer segments (2-3 instead of 10)
- Dry run first
- Layer-by-layer generation

### Review at Each Stage

Don't generate everything at once:
1. Generate script → Review
2. Generate prompts → Review and edit
3. Generate media → Review
4. Compose timeline → Export

### Use Version Control

Keep your inputs files in version control:
- Track changes to prompts and settings
- Reproduce past generations
- Share configurations with team members

### Monitor Costs

Check provider dashboards regularly:
- Video generation is most expensive
- Audio generation is moderate
- Script generation is cheap

Use `renku producers:list` to see pricing information.

Commit message:

feat: multiple artifact ids can be specified for more surgical re-generation

web/src/content/docs/docs/usage-guide.mdx, after:

---
title: Usage Guide
description: Master the common workflows for generating and editing AI video content
---

This guide covers the day-to-day workflows for using Renku: specifying inputs, discovering blueprints and models, testing with dry runs, generating content, and iterating on your creations.

## Specifying Inputs

Every blueprint requires an inputs file that provides the configuration for your video generation.

### Input File Format

Inputs are specified in YAML with two main sections:

```yaml
inputs:
  InquiryPrompt: "Your topic or prompt here"
  Duration: 60
  NumOfSegments: 3
  # ... other blueprint-specific inputs

models:
  # Optional: override default model selections
  - model: minimax/speech-2.6-hd
    provider: replicate
    producerId: AudioProducer
```

### Input Types

| Type | YAML Syntax | Example |
|------|-------------|---------|
| `string` | Quoted or unquoted text | `"Hello world"` or `Hello world` |
| `int` | Number without quotes | `42` |
| `array` | YAML list | `["item1", "item2"]` |

### Using Input Templates

Every blueprint includes an `input-template.yaml` with all available inputs and their defaults:

```bash
# Copy the template
cp {blueprint-dir}/input-template.yaml ./my-inputs.yaml

# Edit with your values
nano ./my-inputs.yaml
```

### Model Selection

Select which AI model to use for each producer:

```yaml
models:
  # Use a specific video model
  - model: google/veo-3.1-fast
    provider: replicate
    producerId: VideoProducer

  # Use a specific voice model with custom config
  - model: minimax/speech-2.6-hd
    provider: replicate
    producerId: AudioProducer

  # LLM producer with structured output
  - model: gpt-5-mini
    provider: openai
    producerId: ScriptProducer
    config:
      text_format: json_schema
```

The `config` field allows you to pass provider-specific configuration options.

**Note:** Input-to-provider field mappings (transforms) are defined in the producer YAML files, not in the input template. This keeps the input file simple - you only need to specify what model to use, not how inputs map to provider fields.

## Discovering Content

### Browsing Blueprints

Browse available blueprints in your workspace catalog:

```bash
ls ./catalog/blueprints/
```

Each blueprint directory contains:
- The blueprint YAML file with the workflow definition
- An `input-template.yaml` documenting required inputs and their types

### Browsing Models

See available models for a blueprint's producers:

```bash
renku producers:list --blueprint=video-only.yaml
```

Output:
```
Producer model configurations:

VideoProducer (4 video models)
  Provider    Model                          Price
  replicate   bytedance/seedance-1-pro-fast  480p: $0.015/s
  replicate   google/veo-3.1-fast            $0.10/s
  fal-ai      veo3-1                         -

AudioProducer (2 audio models)
  Provider    Model                 Price
  replicate   minimax/speech-2.6-hd $0.0001/token
  replicate   elevenlabs/v3         $0.0001/token

⚠️  Missing API tokens:
  - fal-ai: FAL_KEY not set
```

## Testing with Dry Run

Before spending API credits, validate your configuration with a dry run:

```bash
renku generate \
  --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml \
  --blueprint=./my-blueprint.yaml \
  --dry-run
```

### What Dry Run Does

- Validates blueprint YAML structure
- Checks all required inputs are provided
- Verifies producer paths exist
- Creates the execution plan
- Generates placeholder artifacts

### What Dry Run Doesn't Do

- Call any AI provider APIs
- Consume API credits
- Generate real content

### Inspecting the Plan

After a dry run, examine the execution plan:

```bash
cat {workspace}/builds/movie-{id}/runs/rev-0001-plan.json
```

The plan shows:
- Execution layers (parallel groups)
- Jobs in each layer
- Input/output connections
- Canonical IDs for all nodes

## Running Generation

### Full Generation

Run the complete workflow:

```bash
renku generate \
  --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml \
  --blueprint=./my-blueprint.yaml
```

Renku will:
1. Create a new movie directory
2. Execute producers layer by layer
3. Store artifacts in the blob store
4. Create symlinks in `artifacts/`
5. Log all events for future reference

### Continue an Existing Movie

Resume or regenerate an existing movie:

```bash
# By movie ID
renku generate --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4 --inputs=./inputs.yaml

# The most recent movie
renku generate --last --inputs=./inputs.yaml
```

**Note:** The `--inputs` flag is always required, even when continuing an existing movie. This ensures model selections are available for any jobs that need to run.

### Non-Interactive Mode

Skip confirmation prompts for automation:

```bash
renku generate \
  --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml \
  --blueprint=./my-blueprint.yaml \
  --non-interactive
```

### Finding Your Outputs

Generated content is in two locations within your **current working directory**:

**Build directory** (`builds/movie-{id}/`):
- `blobs/` - Raw generated files
- `manifests/` - Artifact metadata
- `events/` - Execution logs

**Artifacts view** (`artifacts/movie-{id}/`):
- Human-readable filenames
- Symlinks to blob storage
- Easy to browse and share

Use `renku list` to see all builds in the current project.

## Editing Workflow

Renku's incremental build system makes iteration efficient.

### Changing Inputs

1. Edit your inputs file
2. Re-run generation on the same movie:

```bash
renku generate --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4 --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml
```

Renku detects which inputs changed and only regenerates affected artifacts.

### Editing Generated Prompts

You can manually edit generated text artifacts:

1. Find the artifact in `artifacts/movie-{id}/`
2. Edit the file directly (it's a symlink to the blob)
3. Re-run generation:

```bash
renku generate --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4 --inputs=./inputs.yaml
```

Renku will:
- Detect your manual edits
- Keep your changes
- Only regenerate downstream artifacts that depend on the edited file

### Replacing Artifacts

If an AI-generated image or video isn't satisfactory:

1. Replace the file in `artifacts/movie-{id}/`
2. Re-run generation

Your replacement will be used for downstream processing (like timeline composition).

## Layer-by-Layer Generation

For cost control and quality review, generate content in stages.

### What Are Layers?

Renku groups independent jobs into execution layers:

- **Layer 0**: Script generation (depends only on inputs)
- **Layer 1**: Prompt generation, audio synthesis (depends on script)
- **Layer 2**: Video/image generation (depends on prompts)
- **Layer 3**: Timeline composition (depends on all media)

### Generate Up to a Specific Layer

```bash
renku generate \
  --inputs=./my-inputs.yaml \
  --blueprint=./my-blueprint.yaml \
  --up-to-layer=1
```

This stops after layer 1, so you can:
- Review the generated script
- Check audio quality
- Make edits before generating expensive video content

### Continue to Next Layers

After reviewing, continue generation:

```bash
renku generate --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4 --inputs=./inputs.yaml --up-to-layer=2
```

### Re-Run From a Specific Layer

If you need to regenerate content from a specific layer onwards (e.g., after changing model settings or fixing an issue), use `--re-run-from`:

```bash
# Re-run from layer 2 (skips layers 0-1, uses existing artifacts)
renku generate --last --inputs=./inputs.yaml --from=2
```

This is useful when:
- You want to try a different video model without regenerating scripts
- A later layer failed and you want to retry from that point
- You've manually edited artifacts at a specific layer

The `--from` flag:
- Takes a 0-indexed layer number
- Skips all layers before the specified layer (uses existing artifacts)
- Forces all jobs at the specified layer and above to re-run
- Requires `--inputs` to be specified (for model selections)

You can combine `--from` with `--up-to-layer` to re-run a specific range:

```bash
# Re-run only layers 2 and 3
renku generate --last --inputs=./inputs.yaml --from=2 --up-to-layer=3
```

### Surgical Artifact Regeneration

When you need to regenerate just one or a few specific artifacts without affecting siblings, use `--artifact-id` or the shorter `--aid` alias:

```bash
# Regenerate only segment 2's audio (not segments 0, 1, 3, 4)
renku generate --last --artifact-id="AudioProducer.GeneratedAudio[2]" --inputs=./inputs.yaml

# Regenerate multiple specific segments using --aid alias
renku generate --last --aid="AudioProducer.GeneratedAudio[0]" --aid="AudioProducer.GeneratedAudio[2]" --inputs=./inputs.yaml
```

This is different from `--from` which regenerates **all** jobs at a layer. With `--artifact-id` / `--aid`:
- Only the specified artifact(s) and their downstream dependencies are regenerated
- Sibling artifacts in the same layer are untouched
- Can be specified multiple times to target multiple artifacts
- You can combine with `--up-to-layer` to limit how far downstream propagation goes

**When to use each:**

| Scenario | Use |
|----------|-----|
| One segment sounds wrong, others are fine | `--artifact-id` or `--aid` |
| Multiple specific segments need work | `--aid=X --aid=Y` |
| Changed model settings, need to redo a layer | `--from` |
| Generated up to layer 1, now want to fix one image | `--artifact-id` + `--up-to-layer` |
| Need to retry all video generation | `--from=N` where N is the video layer |

**Finding artifact IDs:**

```bash
# List all artifact IDs in a movie
cat builds/movie-{id}/manifests/rev-XXXX.json | jq '.artefacts | keys'
```

**Note:** Quote the artifact ID when using zsh to prevent bracket expansion:
```bash
renku generate --last --aid="AudioProducer.GeneratedAudio[2]" --inputs=./inputs.yaml
```

### Cost-Saving Strategies

1. **Review scripts first** - Script generation is cheap; video generation is expensive
2. **Use layer limits** - Generate expensive content only when you're happy with cheaper precursors
3. **Iterate on prompts** - Edit video prompts before generating videos
4. **Leverage caching** - Re-running generation only rebuilds changed artifacts
5. **Use `--from` for retries** - If a later layer fails, use `--from=N` to retry from that layer without regenerating earlier content
6. **Use `--aid` for surgical fixes** - If specific segments need work, regenerate just those artifacts instead of the whole layer (e.g., `--aid=Audio[0] --aid=Audio[2]`)

## Viewing Content

### Open in Viewer

Start the viewer and open a movie:

```bash
# Specific movie
renku viewer:view --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4

# Most recent movie
renku viewer:view --last
```

### Background Viewer Server

Start the viewer server in the background:

```bash
renku viewer:start
```

Stop it when done:

```bash
renku viewer:stop
```

## Exporting Video

Export the final video as MP4:

```bash
renku export --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4
```

With custom settings:

```bash
renku export --last \
  --width=1920 \
  --height=1080 \
  --fps=30
```

### Choosing an Exporter

Renku supports two exporter backends:

| Exporter | Description | Requirements |
|----------|-------------|--------------|
| `remotion` | Docker-based Remotion renderer (default) | Docker Desktop |
| `ffmpeg` | Native FFmpeg renderer | FFmpeg installed |

Use the `--exporter` flag to choose:

```bash
# Use FFmpeg (faster, no Docker required)
renku export --last --exporter=ffmpeg

# Use Remotion (default, requires Docker)
renku export --last --exporter=remotion
```

**FFmpeg exporter advantages:**
- No Docker installation required
- Faster rendering for simple timelines
- Produces MP3 for audio-only timelines
- Supports karaoke-style subtitles

**Remotion exporter advantages:**
- More advanced video effects
- Better suited for complex compositions

### Advanced Export Configuration

For fine-grained control over export settings, use a YAML config file:

```bash
renku export --last --inputs=./export-config.yaml
```

Example config file with all available options:

```yaml
# Video settings
width: 1920
height: 1080
fps: 30
exporter: ffmpeg

# FFmpeg encoding settings
preset: medium      # ultrafast, fast, medium, slow
crf: 23             # Quality: 0-51 (lower = better)
audioBitrate: 192k  # Audio quality

# Karaoke-style subtitles (requires TranscriptionProducer)
subtitles:
  font: Arial
  fontSize: 48
  fontBaseColor: "#FFFFFF"
  fontHighlightColor: "#FFD700"
  backgroundColor: "#000000"
  backgroundOpacity: 0.5
  bottomMarginPercent: 10
  maxWordsPerLine: 4
  highlightEffect: true
```

### Subtitles

If your blueprint includes a `TranscriptionProducer`, the FFmpeg exporter can add karaoke-style subtitles that highlight words as they're spoken:

1. Ensure your blueprint has a `TranscriptionProducer` that generates word-level timestamps
2. Create an export config with subtitle settings
3. Run export with the config file

The exported video is saved to:
- `builds/movie-{id}/FinalVideo.mp4`
- `artifacts/movie-{id}/FinalVideo.mp4` (symlink)

## Cleaning Up

List builds in the current project:

```bash
renku list
```

This shows which builds have artifacts (completed runs) vs. dry-run only builds.

Remove dry-run builds (safe default):

```bash
renku clean
```

Remove a specific movie:

```bash
renku clean --movie-id=movie-a1b2c3d4
```

Remove all builds including completed ones:

```bash
renku clean --all
```

## Tips and Best Practices

### Start Small

For new blueprints, start with:
- Fewer segments (2-3 instead of 10)
- Dry run first
- Layer-by-layer generation

### Review at Each Stage

Don't generate everything at once:
1. Generate script → Review
2. Generate prompts → Review and edit
3. Generate media → Review
4. Compose timeline → Export

### Use Version Control

Keep your inputs files in version control:
- Track changes to prompts and settings
- Reproduce past generations
- Share configurations with team members

### Monitor Costs

Check provider dashboards regularly:
- Video generation is most expensive
- Audio generation is moderate
- Script generation is cheap

Use `renku producers:list` to see pricing information.
